{{TOC}}

# Passport

Fundamentally, this module is used for authenticating and authorizing users (a.k.a. Indentities) on Spica Client and API.

## Identities

### What are Identities?

Identities are the main entities of your Spica. They are basically profiles with custom properties and login information. You can attach Policies (see below) and restrict their access to the Spica.

### Define Identity Properties

Here in Spica, Identities are dynamic and changeable domains.

By default, an Identity object has these properties:

- Identifier: A unique, string type property which is used for logging in.
- Password: User-defined password for authentication.
- First and Last Name
- Email

If you want more properties, you can go the Settings page of Passport and add custom properties to your Identities.

Click the `+` icon on the Settings page. This will add a string type new property. You can customize the property by changing the `Title`, `Description` and even the `Type` of the property.

> Note: For more information about types, go to the section: _Bucket Field Types_

### List Identities

#### With Client

You can find the list of your Identities by clicking on the **Identities** from the side menu or by going to the `/passport/identity` URL. If you've just initialized the Spica, the list would be empty (or with a default `spica` identity depending on your setup configurations.).

Here, you can edit (`pen` button), create (`plus` button) and delete (`trash` button) your Identities.

#### With API Call

Request URL:

> GET "{baseUrl}/passport/identity?{params}"

Returns paginated `Identity` Array.

Params:  
All the params below are optional.

`"limit"`: Accepts number value. Limits the data count on listing array.

`"skip"`: Skips number of entries before listing.

Example response:

```json
{
  "meta": { "total": 1 },
  "data": [
    {
      "_id": "5d137e13570fbca9e0e9ff42",
      "identifier": "spica",
      "password": "$2a$10$wibvsNsOxEVDj5Pl2EJnme.rhEV5vRIhOExhXvNCrCXIdRzr6F5TG",
      "policies": [
        "PassportFullAccess",
        "IdentityFullAccess",
        "StorageFullAccess",
        "PolicyFullAccess",
        "FunctionFullAccess",
        "SubscriptionFullAccess",
        "BucketFullAccess"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Create an Identity

#### With Client

To create a new Identity, click on the `+` button on Identities list page or go to `/passport/identity/add` url.

By filling the form on the page, you can create a new Identity. After the creation, you can access the Policies of the Identity. (See below)

#### With API Call

Request URL:

> POST "{baseUrl}/passport/identities?{params}"

Example request body:



## Policies

### What are Policies?

Policies are basically a set of rules which can be attached to your Identities to capsulate their behavior.

Policies made from `Statements`, the primitive rules.

First, let's check out the BucketFullAccess policy:

```json
{
  "$schema": "http://spica.internal/passport/policy",
  "_id": "BucketFullAccess",
  "name": "Bucket Full Access",
  "description": "Full access to bucket service.",
  "statement": [
    {
      "effect": "allow",
      "action": "bucket:*",
      "resource": "bucket/*",
      "service": "bucket"
    },
    {
      "effect": "allow",
      "action": "bucket:data:*",
      "resource": "bucket:data/*",
      "service": "bucket:data"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Managing Policies

### Creating Custom Policies

So, you want more control over your Identities? Well... you can. You can create your own Custom Policy by clicking on the `+` button on Policies page to create from scratch or clone a Policy and start to work where it left off by clicking the `copy` button on Policies page next to each policy.

Here you can enter your Policy's `Name` and `Description`.

### Understanding Statements

Statements are simple rules which allows/denies _actions_ such as `bucket:show`, `passport:identity:index` etc.

There are a few types of actions:

- `*:index`: Listing entries
- `*:show`: Getting single entry
- `*:update`: Updating or creating one entry
- `*:delete`: Deleting entry or entries
